# Module pattan_sendgrid.PattanEmail

## PattanEmail
SendGrid API abstraction class for sending emails

## Class Methods

### PattanEmail(*config_json*)
Class constructor  
#### Parameter:
*config_json*: A JSON string (generated by the [CLI](../cli/pe_cli.md)) specifying configuration

### send_personalized_template_email(*personalization_list, template_id, sender, asm_group, ip_pool*)  
This function is useful when the email is customized for each recipient.  
#### Parameters:
*personalization_list*: A list of dictionary objects, each including two keys, ***to*** and ***dynamic_template_data***  
***to*** is a dictionary of two keys, ***name*** and ***email***. The values of each should be the name and email address of one of the recipients.  
***dynamic_template_data*** is a dictionary of whatever values the specified dynamic template expects.  
Example *personalization_list*:  
```JSON
[
        {
                "to": {"name":  "John Smith", "email": "jsmith@example.com"},
                "dynamic_template_data": {"message_body":  "Hello, John!"}
        },
        {
                "to": {"name":  "Jim Jones", "email": "james@example.com"},
                "dynamic_template_data": {"message_body":  "Hello, Jim!"}
        }
]
```
  
*template_id*: The SendGrid ID of the dynamic template this message batch is to use  
  
*sender*: A dictionary of two keys, ***name*** and ***email*** - The values should be the name and email address of the person or organization the message is from.  

*asm_group*: The SendGrid ASM group (unsubscribe group) ID for this message batch  

*ip_pool*: The SendGrid ID of the IP address pool from which this message batch is to be sent

### send_template_email(to_addr, dynamic_template_data, sender, email_template, asm_group, ip_pool)
This function is useful when sending an identical message to one or more recipients.  
**Parameters:**  
*to_addr*: A list of dictionary objects, each including two keys, ***name*** and ***email*** - The values of each should be the name and email address of one of the recipients.  

*dynamic_template_data* is a dictionary of whatever values the specified dynamic template expects.  

*sender*: A dictionary of two keys, ***name*** and ***email*** - The values should be the name and email address of the person or organization the message is from.  

*email_template*: The name of the dynamic template this message batch is to use  
  
*asm_group*: The SendGrid ASM group (unsubscribe group) ID for this message batch  

*ip_pool*: The SendGrid ID of the IP address pool from which this message batch is to be sent
